ROCm docs style IA and style guide updates (#311)
AMD-AGI/GEAK: docs/how-to/run-agent.md

        "keywords": "GEAK, run agent, kernel optimization, GPU, CLI, parallel agents, geak CLI, Triton, HIP"
---

# Run the GEAK agent

The `geak` CLI accepts a kernel target and an optional test command, then runs one or more optimization agents against it. This topic shows common invocation patterns, explains parallel multi-GPU runs, and documents every CLI flag.

## Examples

The following examples cover the most common invocation patterns, from a single natural-language prompt to parallel multi-GPU runs.

### Typical kernel optimization (natural-language input)

Pass the full task as a `-t` string. GEAK parses the kernel location, GPU IDs, and harness path from the text.

```bash
geak -t "Optimize the kernel from /path/to/aiter, specifically aiter/ops/triton/topk.py. Use the harness at /path/to/test_topk_harness.py. Use four GPUs with IDs 0-3 simultaneously."
```

### Typical kernel optimization (single agent)

Use explicit flags to specify the kernel and repository when you want precise control over inputs.

```bash
geak --kernel-url /path/to/kernel/file \
  --repo /path/to/kernel/repo \

>   --task "Optimize the block_reduce kernel" \

Reviewer: Either remove training \ on this line, or add "..." to the next line?

```

### Parallel agents

> Pass `--gpu-ids` as a comma-separated list of device indices (`0,1,2,3`). Each parallel agent is bound to one GPU: agent `i` uses `gpu_ids[i]` (0-based). For full isolation, set `--num-parallel` to the same count as the IDs you list; if you supply fewer IDs than agents, some runs share or fall back without per-agent GPU pinning (the CLI prints a warning).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass `--gpu-ids` as a comma-separated list of device indices (`0,1,2,3`). Each parallel agent is bound to one GPU: agent `i` uses `gpu_ids[i]` (0-based). For full isolation, set `--num-parallel` to the same count as the IDs you list; if you supply fewer IDs than agents, some agents share a GPU, and the CLI prints a warning.
```

```

Task 1 — Without NL, without harness: GEAK discovers the kernel structure, generates its own harness, and runs optimization from CLI flags.

```bash
geak --kernel-url 'https://github.com/ROCm/aiter/blob/main/aiter/ops/triton/topk.py' \
  --gpu-ids '0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7' --yolo \
  --task 'Optimize the topk kernel.' --exit-immediately \
  -o '/workspace/GEAK_ARTIFACTS/topk_wo_task_wo_harness' \
  2>&1 | tee '/workspace/GEAK_ARTIFACTS/topk_wo_task_wo_harness.log'
```

Task 2 — Without NL, with harness: same CLI-flag style, but a pre-existing test harness is supplied via `--test-command`.

```bash
geak --kernel-url 'https://github.com/ROCm/aiter/blob/main/aiter/ops/triton/topk.py' \
  --test-command 'python3 /workspace/GEAK_ARTIFACTS/test_topk_harness.py --correctness && python3 /workspace/GEAK_ARTIFACTS/test_topk_harness.py --full-benchmark' \
  --gpu-ids '0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7' --yolo \
  --task 'Optimize the topk kernel.' --exit-immediately \
  -o '/workspace/GEAK_ARTIFACTS/topk_wo_task_w_harness' \
  2>&1 | tee '/workspace/GEAK_ARTIFACTS/topk_wo_task_w_harness.log'
```

> Task 3 — With NL, without harness: everything is expressed in a single natural-language `-t` string; GEAK parses the kernel URL, GPU count, and mode from the text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Task 3 — With NL, without harness: everything is expressed in a single natural-language `-t` string. GEAK parses the kernel URL, GPU count, and mode from the text.
```

| `--num-parallel` | Number of parallel agent runs. |
| `--gpu-ids` | Comma-separated GPU device indices. |
| `--test-command`, `--test_command` | Test command used to verify correctness and performance of the kernel. |

## Outputs

GEAK saves patches and test logs so the optimization progress and results are transparent.

- **Default output base**: `optimization_logs/`
- **Auto-generated run directory**: `optimization_logs/<kernel_name>_<YYYYmmdd_HHMMSS>/`

Typical structure (parallel run):

```bash
optimization_logs/<kernel>_<timestamp>/
├── parallel_0/
│   ├── patch_0.patch
│   ├── patch_0_test.txt
│   └── agent_0.log
├── parallel_1/
│   └── ...
├── best_results.json
└── select_agent.log
```

Structure for triton kernels:

```bash
optimization_logs/<kernel>_<timestamp>/
├── results/round_1/<kernel>-<strategy_0>/
│   ├── patch_0.patch
│   ├── patch_0_test.txt
│   └── task_0.log
├── results/round_1/<kernel>-<strategy_1>/
│   └── ...
├── best_results.json
└── select_agent.log
```

## Related topics

> - [Install GEAK](../install/install.md) — set up GEAK and configure a model backend before running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Install GEAK](../install/install.md)—set up GEAK and configure a model backend before running.
```

> - [API reference](../reference/api-reference.md) — complete CLI flag reference, environment variables, and artifact layout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [API reference](../reference/api-reference.md)—complete CLI flag reference, environment variables, and artifact layout.
```

> - [GEAK agent loop](../conceptual/geak-pipeline.md) — understand how the optimization pipeline works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [GEAK agent loop](../conceptual/geak-pipeline.md)—understand how the optimization pipeline works.
```
